doc: west: add documentation for west patch (#89748)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/develop/west/zephyr-cmds.rst

  need to run ``global`` from inside the workspace.

.. _west-patch:

Working with patches: ``west patch``
************************************

The ``patch`` command allows users to apply patches to Zephyr or Zephyr modules
in a controlled manner that makes automation and tracking easier.

There are several sub-commands available:
- ``apply``: apply a patch to the Zephyr module or a module in the workspace.
- ``clean``: remove all patches that have been applied to the Zephyr module or a module in the workspace.
- ``list``: list all patches that have been applied to the Zephyr module or a module in the workspace.
- ``gh-fetch``: fetch patches from GitHub.

Patches are described in a YAML file that is typically located in the ``zephyr/patches.yml`` file.

A typical use case is when a project uses the :ref:`T2 Star Topology <west-t2>`
where an external application is the manifest repository.

.. code-block:: none
  :alt: layout of a typical T2 Star Topology workspace

   west-workspace/
   ├── application/
        ...
   ├── west.yml
   └── zephyr
       ├── module.yml
       ├── patches
       │   └── zephyr
       │       └── my-zephyr-change.patch

>        └── patches.yml

Reviewer: The indentation looks off? These files should be under the `application` directory?

Author: All of the files are under `west-workspace`, I just didn't elaborate what is in the `application` directory (since it can vary) and left an ellipsis there instead.

Author: Fixed!

In this example, the ``west.yml`` file pins to a specific revision of Zephyr (``v4.1.0``).
However, the application requires a change to main Zephyr project code in order to meet
requirements.

The ``patches.yml`` file can be used to keep metadata about the patch, to track its upstreaming

> status, and makes it very easy to remove patches that are no longer necessary. This makese it

Author: Fixed!

        apply-command: git apply
        comments: |
          A change to mcuboot that has been merged already. We can remove this
          patch when we update to the next release.

Patches can easily be applied in an automated manner. For example:

   .. code-block:: bash
    :alt: a possibly automated workflow that uses west patch

    west init -m <manifest repo> <workspace>
    cd <workspace>
    west update
    west patch apply

When it is time to update to a newer version of Zephyr, the ``west.yml`` file can be updated to
point at e.g. ``v4.2.0``, and then the following commands can be run.

   .. code-block:: bash
    :alt: re-applying patches after a Zephyr update with west patch

    west patch clean
    west update
    west patch apply -r # rolls-back all patches if one does not apply cleanly

It is also possible to use ``west patch gh-fetch`` to fetch patches from a GitHub pull request and
automatically create or update ``patches.yml`` file along with all local patch files.

This can be useful when the author already has a number of changes captured in existing upstream
pull requests

.. code-block:: bash
  :alt: fetching patches from GitHub pull request

>     west patch gh-fetch -o zephyrproject-rtos -r zephyr -pr <pr-number> -m zephyr -s

Reviewer: Maybe use `--split-commits` in full as this is more descriptive as an example.

Author: Fixed! (used expanded arguments in general)

  separate ``west global`` command since ``global`` already searches for the
  ``GTAGS`` file starting from your current working directory. This is why you
  need to run ``global`` from inside the workspace.

.. _west-patch:

Working with patches: ``west patch``
************************************

The ``patch`` command allows users to apply patches to Zephyr or Zephyr modules
in a controlled manner that makes automation and tracking easier for external applications that
use the :ref:`T2 star topology <west-t2>`. The :ref:`patches.yml <patches-yml>` file stores
metadata about patch files and fills-in the gaps between official Zephyr releases, so that users
can easily see the status of any upstreaming efforts, and maintainers can easily determine which

> patches to drop before upgrading to the next Zephyr release.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the "and maintainers can easily determine which patches to drop before upgrading to the next Zephyr release" part?

Reviewer 2: yeah it's the use of "maintainers" in that context which is confusing. In Zephyr documentation, "maintainer" really ought to mean "Zephyr maintainer"

So I think you want to say the below, no?

> so that users can easily see the status of any upstreaming efforts, and determine which
patches to drop before upgrading to the next Zephyr release.

Author: I see - sure I can change that.

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

  separate ``west global`` command since ``global`` already searches for the
  ``GTAGS`` file starting from your current working directory. This is why you
  need to run ``global`` from inside the workspace.

.. _west-patch:

Working with patches: ``west patch``
************************************

> The ``patch`` command allows users to apply patches to Zephyr or Zephyr modules
> in a controlled manner that makes automation and tracking easier for external applications that
> use the :ref:`T2 star topology <west-t2>`.
> 
> There are several sub-commands available:
> 
> * ``apply``: apply a patch to the Zephyr module or a module in the workspace.
> * ``clean``: remove all patches that have been applied to the Zephyr module or a module in the
>   workspace.
> * ``list``: list all patches that have been applied to the Zephyr module or a module in the
>   workspace.
> * ``gh-fetch``: fetch patches from GitHub.

Author: Ooo... I just noticed that this could probably be worded better.

```suggestion
The ``patch`` command allows users to apply patches to Zephyr or Zephyr modules
in a controlled manner that makes automation and tracking easier for external applications that
use the :ref:`T2 star topology <west-t2>`.

There are several sub-commands available to manage patches for Zephyr or other modules in the workspace.

* ``apply``: apply patches listed in ``patches.yml``
* ``clean``: remove all patches that have been applied, and reset to the manifest checkout state
* ``list``: list all patches in ``patches.yml``
* ``gh-fetch``: fetch patches from a GitHub pull request
```
